# Faisal Jagadeep

Faisal Jagadeep: I want to either use Genie in a while I was using it, but I haven't used it. So I was just curious as to what you wanted to talk about.

Jack Bowen: Yeah, I mean, you've kind of, you've kind of hit the nail on the head without really I kind of forget a context. I'm slightly off camera. I, I'm one of the founders, that genie and sort of interested in understanding how we build the next part of our roadmap, and how we kind of make genies as useful as possible for people. So what I've been doing is basically just going through in a car, or kind of usage data, and then like reaching out to a few people from different groups, like some who's still used it, somebody stopped using some who've, like, you know, tried it, and then upgraded or whatever. So just to kind of different cross section of people really. And yeah, I was just kind of curious. I think, as you mentioned, you seemed like you were somebody who used it for a bit and then and then and then kind of stopped. And so I'd be kind of curious, just to dig into that for yet. Sorry, that'd be great to kind of just hear a bit more about you and what you're sort of background is and yeah, how you how you found us and that sort of thing.

Faisal Jagadeep: So I'm, uh, my name is Fatima. I'm a six year graduate student at University of Michigan. I actually heard about Jeanne by following I follow one of I forgot her name, Dahlia. She promoted Jeannie a lot on her Instagram page. So I found out about genie from her. And I thought it would be quite useful tool, because I'm kind of like going in the mode for like digitigrade dissertation writing. So I don't think I'm mentioned I'm a PhD student right now. So I kind of wanted to use that tool to kind of like help me summarise papers faster. So I can like start, right, I can work on my dissertation and the actual writing process more effectively and efficiently. But for me, I tried to play around with the software, but I had a little hard time following as to how to like really effectively use it. So that's why it kind of like, fell off my radar. So I was I was finding it more time consuming, but much more easier to like, read the paper myself and summarise it myself. So I wasn't finding it as helpful as I was hoping to. It would be even so but it could very well be because I wasn't using it the way I should be. So that's why I'm using it. Okay, got

Jack Bowen: a couple questions. And so firstly, what's your subject area? Like? What are you doing a PhD in?

Faisal Jagadeep: So, so my degree is going to be in Cell and Developmental Biology. And, more specifically, I'm kind of like working on how immune cells get towards a site of infection or injury.

Jack Bowen: Wow, that's really cool. Amazing. Gosh, so okay, and then and then the next thing I guess, I was wondering was like, what, how were you using it before? Like, what was your sort of process that you'd figured out, or at least like, had kind of settled on to you.

Faisal Jagadeep: Um, so the way I was going about it, and now kind of like going in thinking of it in hindsight, a little bit. I don't, I was kind of like taking, like downloading the paper onto my desktop, and then uploading it onto Geni. And see what the summary what kind of summary it spits out. And what I was kind of getting was just kind of like, abstract and just like, the endpoint, like the final sentence of a paragraph. I'm like, I can do that. This is not very helpful. So it was, I don't know, I, I would be honest, I did not explore it very much. Because there were like, too many things going on at the same time. So when it didn't, when it wasn't like, as efficient as I thought it would be. I kind of like stopped playing with it. I'm like, I don't have time to figure this out. I will just like go the traditional way. Read the paper and kind of like make my notes as I'm going. Okay, that

Jack Bowen: makes sense. I'm just using the basic or the pro version of interest.

Faisal Jagadeep: Okay, I think I was using the basic word. Check. No, I think I I don't know. I know I paid for it. The year subscription for it.

Jack Bowen: Okay, let me double check

Faisal Jagadeep: Actually did not know those are the features available till just now. Like I said, I didn't explore it as much. Because there were like too many things going on. Well says you

Jack Bowen: have to trust me. Are you like, do you? Do you like? You like working at the same time? Are you doing any like, what? What's the sort of I guess? I'm curious. Like, what, what? What was put it's often I speak to people, there's some sort of external factor that's like generating pressure on their time. And was there anything else that you like? What was the sort of? Yeah,

Faisal Jagadeep: so when I originally got Genie, I was looking at my dissertation defence to be in August, and August of this year that was, and that did not really, like it was too many experiments that still needed to be done, I had to re work on my dissertation. And and then, around the same time, I was also kind of like planning my wedding as well. So there were too many like, external factors. And then internal factors that were going on that I was like, Okay, maybe if I like, use this platform, I can kind of like get more, more, I can go through more papers faster, so that I can write my review and my dissertation faster, more efficient, efficiently. But I didn't get too much time to kind of like, really explore Genie that much. So I didn't know. We could actually send this in there. Did you

Jack Bowen: use any of the notetaking features? Did you try like writing anything in it?

Faisal Jagadeep: Again, didn't know that was a thing. Okay, I would say my introduction to Genie was from one of the Instagram influencers, that pasty influencers I found. And I don't think there were that many tutorials, because all she kind of like showed is that, oh, you can like put in a paper, and it will spit out a summary for you. And that's really the big feature I wanted. And you can also if you get the pro version, you can save those summaries, because you couldn't do that on like the unpaid version of Genie. Right? So that's why I went ahead and got the pro version, but then I didn't really use it.

Jack Bowen: Okay. Okay, um, where would you go and look? If you were Did you ever? Did you ever try and find any guides or anything?

Faisal Jagadeep: Actually did not. I will be honest, I did not. I wanted to but it became like, like I said, Too many things were going on. And it just became to a point where I'm like, Okay, I'm not gonna waste time on trying to find tutorials. You understand? I have, I've saved I got like, a lot of emails from Alexei at Jamie. Alex. Yeah. Alexia Yeah, so I got a lot of emails, I'm like, I really want to go through that. But I don't have time to go through the Amazon, I've saved them all. The chance to go through them. So now that I have a little bit more time and a little bit more breather, I was planning on to kind of read going into like, looking at the tutorials looking at the different features. And that's when you also emailed me and I was like, Oh, I can talk to you there.

Jack Bowen: Cool. Yeah, it's interesting, isn't it? It's a it's a strange paradox, I think of building a productivity tool is that you know, one of them is that like, you know, it's busy busy people. There's this kind of there's this kind of barrier to entry, trying to overuse it and so like you know, reducing that friction is like such a huge like consideration for it so yeah, but that I think I think all these things that you're saying they're very young that I think they resonate a lot Okay awesome curious about so what what what was it like the first time you used it was it how Did you kind of find it? Do you remember to?

Faisal Jagadeep: I don't

Jack Bowen: know. Okay.

Faisal Jagadeep: Like, how did I find? What like, how did I find the software? Or just like you remember

Jack Bowen: your sort of first idea? Yes, the first session was like, to like, did it? I mean, did you was it? Did you literally just use it once? Or do you like come back in afterwards? Or like, do you kind of recall Like, at all like, Well, yeah, I suppose what the initial impression was like,

Faisal Jagadeep: I mean, I, I did come back to it a couple times. My first time it was on my phone, just kind of like scrolling through, I went through a lot of your Instagram page as well. And that's where I kind of got a feel that maybe this is something that will help me, it just, I didn't realise it will be a little bit of a learning curve to kind of like us do anytime. For me personally, anytime I use, like a new software new programme. And there's like a little bit of learning curve, I didn't have time to kind of like, put time in that learning curve. So what I found, so there's another plugin that I use quite often it's called Connecting connected papers. And that one, it just like, if I put in a paper, it doesn't give me a summary or anything. But if I put in a title of a paper, it will find all the papers that are kind of like related to it. And the closer they are to it, there will be like very similar studies, and then the ones that are further away, they're like, kind of tangentially attached to these to the paper that I'm interested in. So that tool, I really personally liked it, because it showed me kind of like how, in a way it kind of like show me how this study was used to make all these other studies. So it also helped me like find different references, and more interesting papers about like, this, the protein that I'm studying. So I think, I don't know if genie has that kind of feature, or kind of like, potentially could excuse me collaborate with that with the people who made that plugin. Cuz that personally, that one I use all the time. Like, if I find any paper, I would always put it in plugin, putting in connected papers.

Jack Bowen: Okay, interesting. Does that mean? Does that mean? Your big, big problem really was like finding the stuff to read? Or finding good stuff that's worth reading.

Faisal Jagadeep: My big problem wasn't that my problem was not being focused, I can find a lot of things to read. But my problem would be like, I would go in rabbit holes. Where, oh, this looks interesting. Oh, they cited this paper. This looks interesting. And then by the time I've like spent an hour, I'm no longer researching on the same thing I started with. So when connected papers would have what helped me was that it would find the papers that are within the field, and that are related to the study that I'm, I'm interested in. Also, I think there was another summary tool that I used to see. Scholarship. Why thanks so much. I just have like a tab of it. Yeah. Scholar see. Yeah. But that didn't work very well, for me, because I couldn't do like I had to put it was either one, I couldn't put a URL directly in scholar see, like, I had to upload a PDF on that. So that it also didn't, that one also didn't really help in summary, again, like it will just, it wasn't like, when I got the summary of that. A I couldn't save that summary, which that was really annoying because for that one, if I x out of the not x, if I move to a different tab under the same thing, the summary is gone. And I had to rerun the summary so that wasn't fun. For scholars, they but um, yeah, that was like, I think that that one I tried to use a lot but it didn't it wasn't very helpful. Okay, yeah.

Jack Bowen: Okay, so your main problem was like going down rabbit holes. Have you looked for a solution to that like, is that something that really bothers you that you've kind of tried to try to kind of develop a process or add

Faisal Jagadeep: Yeah, because I would spend hours on searching different things, but I would lose track of what my original question was. But using connected papers that has kind of like really helped me not go in those different rabbit holes because I can get the answer, get different citations for it and kind of like move on to the next thing. I do want to like, go back to exploring Genie again, to kind of like because I have a little bit more room breathing room right now. So I was planning on going back to kind of like, learning how to use Gmail ever more so that I can make use it more effectively. So

Jack Bowen: got it. Okay. Mmm hmm. Trying to think there's anything else what attracted is Jeannie, when you saw the saw the Instagram video? Like why did it? Why did you? Why'd you decide to give it a go?

Faisal Jagadeep: Does summary Oh, and

Jack Bowen: abstracting that out? Like, what was the problem that like what, what made what was the what was the painful thing in your life at the time where you're like, damn, I need that.

Faisal Jagadeep: I think it came down to having a lot of papers to read, okay, and not having enough time to read them all in depth. So that if I can, if God can give me a nice summary of what the paper is talking about, and highlight some of the major findings of the paper I can use that to kind of like get an idea of what the paper has, and then kind of move forward with helping me right because this is the one the big thing that I want you to I wanted to use Jeannie was and that's kind of how I saw it advertised by the Instagram influencer was that she would she used genie to kind of like summarise a bunch of paperwork papers in a short amount of time, got those summaries and then use those summaries to kind of help her write a review for her project. That's kind of what I wanted to use it for is like be able to summarise a lot of them. And then kind of like take that summary and kind of work and help me to help me write the review.

Jack Bowen: Okay, what do you keep with your notes right now?

Faisal Jagadeep: On my iPad or notebook,

Jack Bowen: and what which tools are you using for that?

Faisal Jagadeep: For my iPad I just export the paper on notability and that just like keeps all anything I highlighted anything I write on the paper, everything just gets saved that way. Okay. Or I print out the paper itself and then read it and write on there.

Jack Bowen: Yeah, okay and how does that I guess how does that work with like connected papers or scholar co Genie? I guess if it's all on the iPad, like what's the how do you how are you transitioning between those?

Faisal Jagadeep: Well connected papers is just to find papers, right? So once I find the papers, I can get the full text of them download them and read them. Same thing with scholar See, these are Google kind of like are they called plugins? Oh, extensions, extensions. Yeah, these are Google extensions. So I can put upload open my PDF in Google and Scalzi will try to summarise it but it doesn't do a very good job I can't summarise multiple papers at the same time or it doesn't have let me save the salt scholar she didn't let me save the summary so like if I went to a different tab under the same under same Google thing. It like my summary went away from the first tab that I was working because it was an extension so just

Jack Bowen: do you like I'm always kind of curious about there. So like the the iPad seems to have like emerged in in like research universities is like this sort of, yeah, like, way of you know, I guess like kind of writing on things and annotating reading stuff. It never seems to like jive that well with If I guess the final creation of a product or anything, or at least like I've seen, like various different, maybe that's a bit of a value judgement, I think it doesn't, at least to me, it seems like there are a couple of ways in which people have then like, found to kind of use what they've produced on there somewhere else, I guess. So like, do you like how I mean, how does that like, how does your research working process work? Sort of like cross device that like, what, what does that do? You know, could you only sort of illustrate it be like, well, that kind of looks like

Faisal Jagadeep: I mean, in a way, for me, I'm trying to think this has, for me, the one of the biggest reasons why I use my iPad is to kind of like help me hand draw illustrations. So I'm kind of like, for me, like I tried using working with Adobe Illustrator that did not work very well for me. So like with an iPad, I can kind of like, show you like, I can draw out what a protein would look like kind of like lipid bilayer. And where the protein would look like they I've kind of like drawn that out. And I can take it from here, and export it as an image and post the email list to myself and then put it in a presentation if I want to. So that's my primary reason why I use iPad. When it comes to papers, I can easily go to let me see if I can find like I don't think I have a paper on it that I have marked so heavily right now. Like from the papers, what I can do is I add because I put them all in Notability. And what I can do is like add an extra paper extra page at the end of the paper that has all my notes on it. So for me, I can go back to that final paper that okay, this is what they found in the paper. And this is what my impression was based on like the research I have done, and I can just like easily go there so I can have I will have my iPad on the side open. And I will be typing on my laptop. So that's that's why I have kind of like, works a little bit for me.

Jack Bowen: Yeah. Okay.

Faisal Jagadeep: Does that help answer your question?

Jack Bowen: Yeah, quite a lot. Yeah, it does. Yeah. So iPad on the side, then type on the laptop. And like, what are you typing into in the on the laptop notion or something? Or like what's the

Faisal Jagadeep: it's usually either PowerPoint or Microsoft Word.

Jack Bowen: Okay, interesting. Yeah. And like, with the summaries from Jeannie, like, what role were they playing in this sort of process? Were they like? Were they were they like, decide what to read or were they? What I think you kind of alluded to earlier you said it was sort of like a bit like yeah, synthesising conclusions and basically, and basically just kind of trying to pull the key findings out of the paper. How I'm trying to excuse what I'm trying to say like, if we were trying to, I don't know, if you had like a research assistant, and you were trying to teach them how to do your process, like how does that like fit into the sort of notability market up iPad flow? Like, are these papers that you wouldn't these are the some of the papers that you're summarising not not ones that you would want to mark up on on iPad are the ones that yeah, like this is really what I'm getting.

Faisal Jagadeep: Yeah, so I think one of the big thing would be okay, let me see if I can phrase it correctly. I think the way I would what I want to do with Genie is what I would like to I'm gonna go having trouble speaking today. So I think basically, Jeannie would replace my handwritten notes on iPad. Okay, that will be my goal, to not have to read a paper, mark it all up. Get right up my summary. So I would like God to replace that. I will still use my iPad for my illustrations. But for the actual kind of like, for the actual kind of like notes and the summaries of the papers. I would like to use it for that. Like that's what it will replace that was a that will be the Big thing it would replace. Perseid of Genie is also like, it's all on my laptop. It's all on my computer. So I don't have to work on like, multiple different devices. So I can just like work on one device and get it and be able to access it anywhere. I have my laptop. So

Jack Bowen: interesting.

Faisal Jagadeep: I haven't used it enough to mention it to

Jack Bowen: anybody. Okay. And like, let's say, you did, like, how would you describe it right now? Like, what's the kind of? What would you like? Someone was like, What's this genie thing? Like, how would you? Yeah, well, what's that? Yeah.

Faisal Jagadeep: I mean, the impression that I'm getting now so after chat, the impression I'm getting that genie can do a lot more things than I was even aware, aware of. If someone asks me about Genie, I was, I would be honest, I'm like, I tried to use it, it has a bit of learning curve that I wasn't able to, like, I didn't spend time enough to learn it, but it has good or good reviews. So I would recommend it. If you want to. If you want to spend time learning, I would highly recommend spend time learning it. Instead of just like going doing what I did is just like, go ahead and buy it, hoping you would use it. And then not ending up using it, which was very poor money planning on my part.

Jack Bowen: But I guess what I'm trying to get out is like, um, so I'm being totally honest. Like, I think we've got we company, we've got bit of a problem with how, how we like how we how we how we help people use our tool, and like how it's described. And so I what I suppose I'm kind of curious to hear is like, from I get I find it insanely difficult because like this, you know, working on Genie is like my entire life. So I live in this bubble. And like I know like completely inside and out or everything that doesn't how it works. When I'm like kind of curious to see like for you is like a sort of independent external person. Like, based on what you've seen, like, what what was the impression that you got about like, what it does it prior to this conversation?

Faisal Jagadeep: I mean, the biggest, I would say summary, being able to like summarise a bunch of papers. And the biggest point was saving the summaries, because that's what kind of like differentiates genie from scholarly is like, scholars say you can't save the summary unless you're actively like copy and pasting it. Unless there's a paid version of scholarly that I don't know about. But at least with the free version that I have the you can't save the scholarly summary, the way Jeanne The impression I had, the big thing it can do is like summarise, give you some write summaries of the papers, and then you can save it and easily go back to them over and over again.

Jack Bowen: Got it? Got it. Okay. Nice. All right, that makes sense.

Faisal Jagadeep: Well, I want to ask more for myself is like where can I find tutorials purging? I am going back to kind of like learning more, like looking more anti like using Genie more and more. But where can I find good to troll use of it?

Jack Bowen: Let me show you. I'll show you right now. Let me just show my screen

Faisal Jagadeep: But those sources don't do those sources have to be one of the things that you uploaded, or would do like a general search,

Jack Bowen: or one of the things you uploaded. So let me look over the stuff that you've uploaded. And that's kind of the nice thing. So sometimes, if you if you're doing like a PhD, or you know, higher study, like putting things into Google, often you'll get like, the surface level answer, but within your field, it's actually a bit more of a specific meaning, right? And so having control over that corpus really allows you to like, you know, when when you're at that sort of stage, when you've got like your, you know, 100 to 100 or so, references, your dissertation, like, your, your corpus then becomes like very enriched in the questions you ask what kind of therefore have like much more like targeted answers that are personal to you? Yeah. Okay, cool. And then yeah, and, you know, in in anything, any of the sources that it kind of refers to here, like, if it's something that you uploaded a while ago, and you don't remember what it was about, then you can just you've always got your summary to refer back to you. And so that's something you can just kind of open up and, and you don't have a browse through if that, you know, if that's gonna be helpful. Oh, cool. And yeah, as I say, if you ever get stuck, hit the question mark. And there's a whole page of guides and stuff that we've kind of written up for your various sort of best practices.

Faisal Jagadeep: Yeah. Also, just like, curious question, are there any tutorial videos other than just the guides? written guides?

Jack Bowen: Yes. So we, my colleague put a few of them out recently. Money me his got. Yeah, here we go. So I'm not yet included in that page. That's a good point. Actually. I'll add a link to those. For the meantime, they they're all here on my YouTube channel.

Faisal Jagadeep: Okay, where do you go? Ah, okay. I see. So that's, yeah, so that I can kind of like go back to them to watch the videos.

Jack Bowen: Yeah, I put like Personally, I use it right now is like also just my kind of main knowledge base for all of my work. So like, this is kind of my main workspace and you know, keep like all of my daily notes and stuff in here going while back and yeah, just kind of use these like checklists to figure out what I'm doing every day and then have my sort of various like, readings and things I'm curious about just kind of stacked up here. And always just always have that summary to refer back to you if you if you ever forget what it was about.

Faisal Jagadeep: Yeah. So the is this web This is so from what I'm seeing is this exclusively web based, right? There's no like app that you can download to work on offline.

Jack Bowen: No, no, yeah. It's something we've thought about I think we're like we're trying to like nail the whole interaction, everything before we kind of increase the surface area and build it out. It is an interesting point. I've heard from people that why should I tell you I'm curious like what Why Why the interesting thing is that like,

Faisal Jagadeep: I mean, it's kind of not that the problem is not as it's not as much of a problem now where you can find the internet pretty much anywhere in the world you go. But there are still some places where the internet is not stable, it takes a long time to load. So be having an like, offline version of these would also be helpful. So I feel like if you are in a remote area, you can still access and do this work without having without having having to worry about connecting to Internet.

Jack Bowen: Interesting. I spoke to one guy, he just said he felt like he was getting a better deal. Like there was something more permanent about an app that just made him feel like they're a bit more happy and bit more sort of invested having it on his computer.

Faisal Jagadeep: Yeah, I mean, it really it. Honestly, it's really, in this day and age, most places I was at most places have internet available, like, wherever you go, there is some internet available. But with how fast paced that people work, sometimes that ernet might not be very fast. So you might have trouble loading these documents. So that's why I was just wondering if there is an offline version, where I can understand why you need to have the online, I understand why you need the online version, because that's like it's doing kind of like active search within the documents and everything. But that's kind of like you can kind of having an offline version of that would also kind of like, could also increase kind of like the amount of people use it so that they can easily access it anywhere. They are also like having an app, you can I don't know how much remote activate how much it's accessible on the phone. So I don't know if this is more like a laptop based, like it didn't do primarily work on laptop. But if I can open this up on my phone to do a quick search, that will be great as well. So the app kind of can help connect it but also like an online platform is fine as well.

Jack Bowen: Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. Interesting. Cool. I can't think of any other questions I was curious about, I suppose yeah. For now. I mean, it'd be really fascinating to just hear how you get on with it. And whether this is better than the last session. We've got new summarization models coming out as well. So although we split the background,

Faisal Jagadeep: yeah. So quick question. I haven't again, I haven't logged in Genie in a while. But do I need to update it when I log in? Or does it automatically get updated?

Jack Bowen: Oh, well, when you go to Jeannie Doyle on our website, and you click login, it will like ask you if you want to link your account. Clinician log out? No. It will ask if you want to link your account and just say yes, and I have an account already. And I'm pretty sure I think you signed up with this email from memory. Let me show.

Faisal Jagadeep: Yeah. Now this is I would admit, this is a really cool software. It just it needs a little bit time to kind of like especially I think especially in the research community. This is a one thing that can work beautifully once Incorporated. And like especially like working with the different universities and seeing how different people kind of like different fields can use it. This is I personally think this is brilliant, like I'm looking forward to using the new version now so amazing. I think it's actually spent time in working on

Jack Bowen: it. Yeah, and feel free like if you ever click this help bubble thing here. If you have any feedback, just send it to us like be as like brutal as you like, like you can send a screenshot and be like this issue. Get like this summary is rubbish. Like, just send that that's totally that's like really helpful for us like we can go and improve it and like, we just got you just got to know like what's going wrong and then we can fix it. So okay, yeah, I'll be honest, like awesome. Brilliant. Thanks for your time and yeah, have a great day.

Faisal Jagadeep: Thanks you do
