# Gemini Malik

Gemini Malik: Not bad man, not bad, just raving mode. So nice. Yeah, man, so go ahead with anything you've got planned? I don't. I always have a lot to say. But I'm not one to start off.

Jack Bowen: Well, that's fantastic. I've got yeah, I've a bunch of questions, really? And yeah, firstly, I mean, thanks for taking the time to speak and everything, really appreciate it. Cool. Yeah. So yes, it's a bit of background really, like, I mean, we've just, you know, just released this new version 1.0. Big Yeah, being totally candid, like, I think, old Version Beta, we've always had a few years, but our retention has always been a bit bit iffy. Across those and so our kind of thesis really, with this new one was just like, you know, seeing if like a focus on like quality and sort of good like writing and note taking experience would, would really kind of dip people in. So aim of this really is just like to kind of find out a bit about like, you know, what, how I suppose on one level, whether one point has been proven or another like conceptually, like, what sort of problems you have as a, you know, someone involved in research, that makes sense. So, I guess just like off the bat, I'd be really helpful to know, like, a bit about you. And like, what you're sort of what you're kind of using Genie for like, what sort of, if that makes sense. Like, what, where to put this like, what, what are you wearing, I guess, when you're when you were kind of using Genie, like, I know, because some of our users are, like, studying and doing something else at the same time. So like, what? Yeah, you want to kind of provide a bit of bit of context to that they'll be helpful.

Gemini Malik: Yeah, um, so I mean, like, to start, I would say that, like, like, I'll put this on the back burner, but there are definitely things from the beta, that have not made the transition into 1.0. That were some of the most used components. For me personally, that I was like, you know, where is that? Am I crazy? Why is that? Not in one point? Well, yeah. Then someone had messaged already that, you know, we're working on it. So you know, like, I get it. So then like to put that on the backburner? I suppose the hat I'm wearing is pretty much a student. I'm basically using Gini to write papers. That's, that's more or less. Well, no, sorry, I suppose I'm using Gini to write papers by taking notes. So what I'm feeding into what I'm doing what basically my ritual with Gini is this, it's like, every single week. I am uploading a chapter maybe two chapters of a textbook. And then a couple web sources, and maybe like a research paper or two. Okay. I think it's quite. I'm sure you are probably well aware. But the web sources and the research papers, Jeanne does fabulously. Those are the things that genie does? pretty damn good. There might be like a problem here or there. But it's usually, like even if there's a mild thing, it's just like, whatever.

Jack Bowen: By the way, sorry. Just sorry, which area of study you kind of focused on?

Gemini Malik: I'm doing it's, it's it's a long story. But basically, I'm working on a bachelor's in marketing to eventually get a master's in education. So it's it's a weird, weird story. Yeah, yeah. But regardless, the textbook chapters are Yeah, just notoriously bad. Unfortunately. It didn't seem like it kind of depends on the textbook. And the textbooks that are more like new actually seem to be worse, because they have more content in the sidebars and more like you know, figure 5.3 figure 5.2 pictures and Did you notice and fun facts and all this stuff kind of crowding up like the edges and filling in the pages? Rather than just like just the text of the chapter building last? Yeah. Yeah. And me, man 1.0. I don't know if I was having this problem in the beta or not, but it's so weird man. Some reason the summary on this textbook that I'm in my current class, It's bonkers. It's like, if I just pull it up here. Yeah, so the summary starts as like, figure 5.1, which is like, on the second page, and then like, you go down to the second bullet, and that's back on the first page. And then sometimes you click on something like a third bullet. And it takes you to like, the bottom of the textbook. And I'm just like, so like, something is happening, where it's trying to put together these summaries of what things are like the paragraphs or whatever. And for some reason, it's taking like a sentence from like page nine, and putting it into the summary of page two. Yeah. I don't know what's happening there. But I've been dealing that with that one, a lot with this textbook. So I mean, I can only imagine how hard it is working with AI and trying to have it contextualised the textbook. But yeah, I mean, that's more or less like the main thing that I used to need for though, because I will basically go through my textbooks rather than reading the whole chapter. I'll basically read the summaries. And then depending on what the assignment is, I'll find in the summary, click on it, have it bring me to that specific part of the chapter. And then I'll read that, right. But I found that that hasn't even really been working for me right now. Because, you know, as I'm trying to read through this summary, I'll click on one of the bullets inside the I don't know what to call them the bullet inside of the bullet. And it'll just take me to some somewhere else did okay. Yeah. And I'm like, yeah, not sure.

Jack Bowen: What's the what's the like? What's the main benefit you're trying to receive from from using Genie? Like, what's the kind of absolute time

Gemini Malik: I would say, time, I'm a full time teacher. And then, you know, trying to do full time University on top of that, is, you know, like, I did my first term I did without Jimmy. And it was it was hell, like, you know, having to read, like, over 100 pages a week and then do research on top of that, and then right on top of that, meanwhile, all like, still trying to be a teacher and do lesson planning and, and all that kind of stuff. Like it just no idea. Yeah. I almost gave up. And then I started researching for tools. And that's where I found you guys. And I signed up. And it you know, it's been a bumpy road. But, you know, more or less it. It's been the number one tool that I've used to save time, because it's just when it works, it works amazingly. Like Like I said, that's basically my entire use case is everything that I'm required to read the several 100 pages per week, sometimes I throw it all into genie and then I go into the summaries and I read those. And you know, I can have several 100 worth of pages read in like an hour that way, you know, then I just check the assignments, whatever vocab, whatever terminology I can pick out from those assignments, I look for those key words in Geni. And then I kind of focus my note taking on that aspect of the textbook. Yeah. Meanwhile, like, depending on how complicated the subject might be, the chapter might be, I might be creating a note based off of the whole thing. And then like, focusing in and expanding those notes on whatever the assignment is focusing on. But that I hope that answers the question.

Jack Bowen: Yeah, absolutely. It's, it's definitely interesting. And like, is this uh, it's funny you say that actually, like I remember doing I remember doing some looking at our data at one point actually found that like, from our surveys, there are a lot of people who were like, part time researchers or they were like doing, you know, they were doing like a part time MBA or part time masters or whatever. And that was quite interesting to hear that sort of pressure on time rich reader. Like, I've never recommended you need to anyone

Gemini Malik: I have. She's already a professor. But I've talked about it to a couple people. And you know, a couple of people have been curious, but no one's ever really kind of been like, alright, well, tell me more. Tell me more to more. But then a friend of mine, I have and you know, when we started talking about it, she's like, wow, that sounds amazing. And I'm like, yeah, it is. And I told her, we would take a look at it one time. We forgot. But now, I mean, I'm not I'm not a great spokesperson, to say the least. But I can say for sure that those who I tell it about they're always sceptical and surprised. What are they surprised? Yeah, because they're like, that sounds too good to be true kind of thing. You know, okay. When I, when I say like, yeah, so instead of reading 100 pages, I just have an artificial intelligence, summarise it for me. And then I just read that summary that like

Jack Bowen: that interesting. And like, was you Okay, so you have to write papers. And this is basically like, coursework. These are like submissions. Okay, and they're like essays or?

Gemini Malik: Yeah, so it ranges from three or four short paragraphs, two, you know, six, seven page papers. But I have to do three assignments per week, every week. Okay, basically. One, paper, and then two, I guess you could say just writing assignments. Okay,

Jack Bowen: got it. Got it. And, okay, and it sounds like kind of in terms of like improving it. The big thing for you really is like, this cycle of it sounds like you want to auto summarise really tell me if this is this is accurate. You want to be able to reliably put in like any document, including textbooks. And when you click on the sentence, you want to be taken to exactly where it came from. faultlessly without. So that's a big, it sounds like that's a big problem for you.

Gemini Malik: One thing that I thought about, so one of the things that didn't make it into Genie 1.0 was while when I'm selecting text in a document, I no longer have the ability to have it summarise that selected text and put it into the notepad. That, again, that is like a huge thing for me. Just in terms of two things, one, if there's just something that perhaps the AI didn't include in its summarization, and I really want to focus on that. That was one tool that allowed me to do that. And second, this kind of relates to what you had mentioned in your summary, which was accurate, is that that tool allowed me to correctly go in and select the parts that I I wanted when the AI was not able to correctly format, the summarization. And I've always thought it was very strange that as well, I could never copy past one page. For example, if one section of a chapter started on half a page and ended on the next half of the next page, so it's really only one page in length, but then it's just divided. But there was no way for me to copy into that second page, which I found odd. Okay. I thought that a tool that would allow you to do that would be a perhaps a compromise or work around, too to the problems the AI has in conceptualising textbook. But also, I really thought that if it couldn't be done, in like the PDF viewer, the document viewer tab, I always thought it could just be done in the notepad. So just copying everything that you wanted and putting it in Notepad, but then I think that might be what you guys are trying to mark it as Pro. My only differentiation would be that like, from my understanding, the Pro is trying to reformulate the words. Whereas I would just be looking for that same summary feature that it's always included in basic, just to be able to do it for any length of text. Because I suppose that I shouldn't say any length of text, because you know, you'll have somebody trying to do a whole frickin book again, but like, to go between half of one page and half of the next page, whether that is in the viewer, or by copying that text, putting it into the notepad and then selecting in the notepad to summarise that either way, I thought would be like a way to kind of get around those AI, contextual problems, but that was just me kinda think. No,

Jack Bowen: I think I think I think that makes sense. I think I think it's definitely something I've heard as well. i When you say that people are like, sceptical and surprised as well, like, what do they it's kind of when do they go? And do they go and try it? Or do you think that I'm trying to stand is like um so I think people who are working and studying at the same time have this like, uniquely exceptional pressure on like, on their on their time, if that makes sense. Do you think that do you think that do you think that that's like a point of is that A is that a point of concern? So I guess of the people you spoke to you were many of them in the same situation as you were they also working and studying.

Gemini Malik: Now, they would have either been like, just studying or like, just working? Um, I don't know, like, I have a couple of friends who are like, professors, and they're like, working on their second PhD or whatever like that, because for some reason, smart friend. But okay. Yeah, I don't I don't I don't think I've actually talked about this tool. With anyone who's kind of doing the same thing as I am working on a to be fair, though, actually a co worker of mine. He recently started this like teacher licence programme. It's not a bachelor's, it's not a master's or anything like that is just like a licencing programme. And I have talked to him about Genie several times. He has always expressed interest but again, like the scepticism just comes from the perhaps overzealous description by me because like I like when when Genie works, I love it. When it doesn't work. I'm super frustrated because it's kind of been my like go to resource while while doing this degree, but when it works, it's it's phenomenal.

Jack Bowen: Okay. Tada, and like Do you have? Do you ever try any other tools? Like do you ever look at anything else to try and help with this problem that you have?

Gemini Malik: Um, yeah, gosh, it's been so long now, though, that like I pretty much like, just stuck with Jeanne. But I did try a couple of the other AI tools. Most of them that I found, though, like, you guys, I think I'm not I'm not sure. I haven't done a whole lot of research into your competition. But you guys really found like a niche in terms of like the analysis through AI, rather than just the rewriting, or the ghost writing that a lot of online content writers are using AI for? Yeah. Like, I understand that, you guys, I can't even remember what the back end is called Open AI. Yeah. Yeah. Like, I know that. That's what you guys are using as part of the the back end. And that, especially with Pro, and you're, I remember reading something about you have like character counts, and stuff like that. But as far as I remembered, I couldn't find a tool like yours, which was designed to analyse text, and summarise rather than just rewrite, like, I know that genie uses some rewriting in its summary, but it's largely the same text. Yeah, I haven't tried Pro. So I obviously, I, I can't attest to how different those rewriting tools are. But for me, you know, I don't even really know if I would use those rewriting tools. Because I'm doing all the writing, you know, I don't have any problem doing that writing, it's the vast quantity of time to do the reading, and then the research. And even when I'm doing my research, it comes back to the reading. And Genie is just like this, if the genie you know, I feed it something and it just fucking spits out a nice summary that I can just be like, oh, so I don't need to read the whole 27 page research paper, I can just read the abstract, and then the little footnotes and I can take that information and toss it in as an in text citation. And there's one of my references, you know, it's like, it's fast. It's efficient. It's the summarization. But the other tools that I have used in the past, we're all pretty much writers got it. I can't even do it even like I made a bookmark bar with

Jack Bowen: Jasper you're like,

Gemini Malik: Yeah, Jasper? Shortly. Sad genius. Ai writer. Yeah, I, my, my year with you guys, is coming up on February. And that's about when I was looking at all of these other ones. So it's, it's been a while since I've, I've used anything other than Genie. What

Jack Bowen: what? Like, how would you how would you describe yourself in terms of like a, I suppose a sort of user's persona, like, like where? I suppose like, it's like a weird question. But where would I find more people like you like, what do you say is the defining

Gemini Malik: character? Yeah, I mean, that, that? That's, that's a very difficult question, right? Because, I mean, you you, you almost want to create some sort of brand ambassador programme, run by students to advertise amongst university campuses, but at the same time, like, you know, there's, there's a fear of the unknown, not just on, like the students side of using a tool that perhaps is going to get them in trouble or something like that, or on a administration side, like, Oh, this is an artificial intelligence tool, like, is that cheating? And like, I think because like a lot of these kinds of questions are unprecedented. There. There aren't really answers for those questions. And made by the universities right. So like, as lovely as that idea would be like getting brand ambassadors like they have for fucking the travel companies who send kids out to recruit other kids, you know? That would be that would be perfect. But to do that, you know, you would have to have what feels like would be like a relationship with the administration of universities which we all know is fuckin bureaucratic

Jack Bowen: complaints yet but I suppose then on like a more like so Okay, he's is I suppose his his like the has like the core issue I suppose like so like there's like there's like loads of approaches right to reach and be right you do like Ambassador programmes or like, you know, you can do ads or meetups or communities or whatever. But I suppose like, fundamentally, like, when I when I look at sets of our users sometimes I don't see I don't see like a completely cohesive feature that's like binding them together, or at least it's not, it's not, I think there is there is a there is a problem that's binding them together, which is like, they're people who have to read a lot and don't have don't have loads of time. But I suppose what I'm, I guess what I'm kind of probing is like, you know, if I, if I was to, like, look at it, or I guess I still, like look up like our top 20 users and discover that, like, every single one of them was like a medic, right? Then I speak to medics. As it happens, like, you know, that's like, it's not, it's not you see, and I guess I suppose what I'm asking really is like, what do you think is like the, the higher level group that you feel like you belong to that, that places you in the category of people who need to read lots and don't have much time?

Gemini Malik: That's a that's a, that's a good question. So

Jack Bowen: I'm kind of, I'm always sort of asked you do my job here. But

Gemini Malik: um, I mean, like, as a, as a, as a teacher, that, like, I teach Grade four. So it's not like I'm doing like research into my, you know, science class about flowers, you know, like, that's not really what I'm using Genie for, but like, like, personally, I think. I think, I don't know if this is the answer you're looking for. But with the time thing, I think one of the major problems is that, it's, it's hard for me to balance everything, because it's not just studying and it's not just work, I also try to keep an active social life. And, you know, I find balancing the three of them just incredibly difficult. Trying to retain my sanity, by going out and doing things with people, while also trying to progress my career that I enjoy. But it's very time consuming, by saving time, in my research and my studying, to kind of like, allow me to eventually get to a better job, where I can make more money. And now be able to enjoy that social life more is kind of like my, my goal my, my, my drive. Yeah. So, you know, I, I wouldn't really know what to say

Jack Bowen: put it put it this way, like, um, like, what? What, like, I suppose what what prompted you to bring it up in conversations with the people that you recommended it to? Like, why why did you think that they would resonate with it?

Gemini Malik: Oh, I think personally, it was the, the artificial intelligence aspect, I just found cool. It's new. It's something not a lot of people are aware of. And I just like talking about cool things. Like, you know, I'll talk about it in two ways, the same way that I talked about, like the new virtual reality headsets. You know, I'm like, it's new. It's fun. It's flashy. It's different. You've never tried it. It's cool, right? You don't know about it. I use it. I would love to talk to you about it. Or I'm exhausted. I have no fucking time to do anything. With my life, I fucking you know, I need things to help me with that. And this is one of those things, you know, like, if someone asked me well, like, okay, but you're also during university, like, how do you have time for that? And like, how do you do all the readings and stuff? I'm just like, Yeah, well, I mean, I don't, I don't do the readings anymore. I don't read hundreds of pages. I did that once. And then wanted to jump off of a bridge, like I did it for one term. And I was like, No, I like I mean, they're gonna quit, or I need to find something to help me with this. And that's where the search for some sort of tool came from. And that's where I found Jeanne, and then, you know, I've talked to people like that I'm just like, it was a tool that I found, that allows me to be a better student and save time. Because it's not only just the saving of time, but you know, processing information, when you're just reading it from a textbook, page after page after page after page, you don't really process it much anymore. Unless you're like an insane note keeper. And even then it's just mentally fatiguing.

Jack Bowen: Yeah, it's cool.

Gemini Malik: I find I find that, like, when I'm talking about it to someone else, I'm also talking about how useful it has been in focusing my studies. So okay, I know there's a whole chapter. But I can get the summary of the chapter and then focus only on the things I need to focus on. The assignment is only about this concept in the chapter, even if that chapter goes over nine different concepts, you know, so like, I can, I can get the gist while focusing on the most important part. Okay, so yeah, I suppose, like, two ways that I would talk to other people about it usually, which is like the, it's a, it's a cool piece of technology that maybe you've not heard of, and I find it interesting. So I'd love to talk to you about why I find it interesting. And then this thing is a lifesaver. I save so much time with it. Like if you're doing anything remotely similar, like I would highly suggest this tool.

Jack Bowen: Okay, interesting. Got it. Cool. Are there any other questions you think I should ask?

Gemini Malik: Gosh, I mean, really, at this point in time, the tabs feature is phenomenal. That that addresses one of my biggest problems. Isn't he had a mug with bullet points that seems to be fixed? The the lack of a search bar is like a fatal flaw. I'm not gonna lie. I don't know how that got left out at 1.0. But I know it's in the works. I saw the little mock up. Someone posted a screenshot. And I was you. Yeah, phenomenal. That would be perfect. It looks just like it did in the beta. I'm sure it would work exactly the same. And then the ability to summarise again, selections of text, and ideally, selecting that text across a larger section. Even if that section is broken up by page or if not allowing that allowing me to copy however much I need to copy into the notes and then summarise that from the notes. And then finally, just the whole somehow work your magic and have artificial intelligence understand my textbooks. Yeah. Okay, you know, you guys are doing great. You've improved a lot since I started using it in February. So those couple of things are features I would like to see come back or improved upon. And I mean, I questions that you should ask if I'm not the person for that. So,

Jack Bowen: okay. Is there anyone else who you think you recommend? I should speak to you?

Gemini Malik: In what context like My personal social circle or like,

Jack Bowen: I suppose, anyone that you think would, you know has like a struggles with like saving time and they're reading or like has a big information problem he he'd be like you provide some sort of insight onto like, yeah, that how that affects them and you know and characterise it in a way that, you know, we might be able to sort of help help them as well.

Gemini Malik: I, I can think of two people off the top of my head. I mean, they're both. They're both constantly doing research. And both good people. So I can I can imagine, like, they're both very smart. So I can imagine, they might have insights, that would be useful, but I feel like like, that's probably something that I would one, I'd have to ask them permission first, and, you know, talk or go through the tool with them and show them and maybe, then, I don't know, allow them to use it or something. Okay, but, I mean, if that is just the question. Can I think of anyone? I suppose I could think of two people.

Jack Bowen: If you Yeah, I mean, if you if you think they might might be interesting to chat to and they want to chat. Yeah. If you want to put me in touch. That'd be fantastic.

Gemini Malik: Sure, yeah. I'll I see I see one of them every week and the other from time to time, so I'll send him a message on Facebook in

Jack Bowen: okay. Yeah, no, that'd be great. And last question, are you on the lifetime deal?

Gemini Malik: I am not. I heard of it. I heard of it.

Jack Bowen: What kind of a you are trying to figure out your monthly subscriber there? No.

Gemini Malik: Ah, to be honest, I can't even remember. I'm pretty sure I'm an annual subscriber on the student plan. Okay. Yeah. And I think I even I think you guys even ran a promo on some sort of student students beans. Yeah. Yeah. So I actually I signed up through student beans with my edu email, and managed to get your annual package for basic at a at a discount. Okay. I've been using that. Yeah. Got it.

Jack Bowen: Awesome. Brilliant. Well, I think those were the questions I had. Thank you so much for Yeah, for speaking with me. And, yeah, I really appreciate you taking the time. It's obviously quite a lot of effort really like giving feedback. And I think you've been really eloquent in kind of providing you with sort of a bit of a framework for understanding how you're using it right now. Yeah, thank you. I appreciate it. And yeah, as you say, if there's anyone else you can think of, or if I don't know if there's anyone in the community or something, if you could, I don't know, maybe encourage them to, like, take part in a feedback call. It's always super helpful for us to like, kind of collect that feature. Sure.

Gemini Malik: Yeah, yeah. No, I can imagine. You know, I'm actually doing a paper right now just on Customer Identification and needs and all

Jack Bowen: that. It's difficult.

Gemini Malik: Yeah, I can, I can only imagine I'm doing this basically, just to get to another avenue, but you know, you're trying to live it. So good luck. As much as I can say for

Jack Bowen: sure. Brilliant. Well, Garrett, thank you for your time. And I'll keep you posted on these updates. The Add to notes thing I think is coming soon. Yeah, one of the guys is working on at the moment. And yeah, the rest of it CTRL F as well as in the works. So hopefully, we'll have that out soon.

Gemini Malik: Awesome. How big is how big is this company? Like it's just the four or five of you like

Jack Bowen: we were and then we just hired. We just hired two more people. So we've got Yes, three founders and four employees at the moment.

Gemini Malik: Wow. Yeah. It's still pretty small. So it's pretty high. I hope one day you guys get into the big digits.

Jack Bowen: Yeah. Same here. Yeah. All right, Jack. Thanks so much, man. Thanks for your time. Have a great day.

Gemini Malik: You too, brother. Bye

Jack Bowen: bye
